What is SDLC?
The Software Development Life Cycle is referred to as SDLC. The SDLC helps us deliver software with the highest quality at the lowest cost.

Using SDLC, an organization can develop software in a well-structured way and maintain quality by testing and validating user specifications before releasing the software to a live environment. SDLC offers a well-structured flow of different phases.

An application development life cycle is also known as the Software Development Life Cycle or SDLC, and it can be used to develop both hardware and software components.

Iterative and incremental processes are incorporated into the SDLC model. Ensuring quick delivery of a working software solution, it focuses more on customer satisfaction and process adaptability.


Phases of SDLC
SDLC consists of various phases.

1. Planning
2. Design 
3. Implementation
4. Testing 
5. Delivery/Deployment
6. Maintenance


1. Planning
The first step is to gather and analyze requirements. This process includes getting customer input, meeting senior managers, 
and learning about sales and marketing. The requirements should be properly documented. The document is referred to as the 
Software Requirements Specification (SRS). As part of the project life cycle, the product requirements are outlined.

2. Design 
Using the output of the initial phase, the SRS document (Software Requirement Specification), 
we generate a software architecture for implementing system development. 

In addition to identifying and specifying the system and hardware requirements, this phase also helps define the overall 
programming language framework, database architecture, and system architecture.

The system design specifications are used as input in the next phase of the model.

3. Implementation
A suitable programming language is used in the implementation of the project. Compilers, interpreters, code editors, 
integrated development environments, and debuggers can all be used to write and test programs. Depending on the application, 
the programming language can be chosen. During this phase, the developed module is tested unit by unit.

4. Testing 
Testing ensures that a software program works as expected. This way, we can determine whether the final project meets the 
requirements. Testing includes integration testing, system testing, etc. Two modules are tested together during integration 
testing, and a system test is a complete project test.

5. Delivery/Deployment
Ultimately, the product is released in the market. A brand-new feature can be added to the product based on customer feedback. 
Existing customers receive maintenance and the required services. SDLC consists of these major phases.

6. Maintenance
Publishing the software does not end the process. You need to be checking, tracking and analyzing it on timely basis to ensure 
that you are extracting actual value out of it. The operation needs a lot of operational maintenance after launch.